hey indie filmmakers Griffin here I
always say it's important to capture
close clear audio don't believe me
here's what the on-camera mic sounds
like right now compared to my shotgun
microphone the as den SG m1x
I've used this microphone for years on
all my professional projects all of my
Indy mogul videos and every one of my
interviews in the sriracha documentary
I've always been really happy with it no
one has ever complained about the audio
quality but I started to wonder when it
comes to microphones what is the
difference between a hundred and seventy
dollars and seven hundred dollars I just
picked up the rode ntg3 and I'm curious
is it really worth spending four times
as much for a microphone out of the box
these two microphones are similar in
design each has a diaphragm at the end
of a long slotted tube what this means
is sound waves that enter from the front
travel down the tube and are picked up
by the diaphragm but sound waves that
enter from the side might bounce around
a couple times before being rejected by
one with slots this is how shotgun
microphones are able to focus on sound
from one direction the rode mic feels
solid it's 20% shorter than the as down
and slightly slimmer yet it's nearly an
ounce heavier even after I pop in the
triple a battery the as Den weighs less
so the as dent has its own power supply
and on/off switch but the road doesn't
that means you'll always need phantom
power for the road which I'll explain in
a few minutes each mic comes with a
carrying bag and windscreen but only the
as den comes with a shock mount so for
today's testing I've borrowed a second
as den shock mount which is a little bit
too long to fit the road properly I love
the fact that the rode mic comes with an
aluminum storage tube because it's so
solid and well protected I felt
comfortable buying a used one on eBay
that saved me $200 I got a no what does
the Rhodes bigger price tag mean does it
sound better
does it reject more background noise
does it work from greater distances from
the
subject it's time to pop on some
headphones and run some side-by-side
tests hello okay what's going on here oh
okay what's going on here I'm recording
you with two different microphones
course you are why wouldn't you be
course you are
why wouldn't you be I've always been
completely happy with my as denne
microphone but now that I'm testing them
side by side it really does sound tinny
muffled compared to the rode mic and
that's because the road has a greater
dynamic range it has more frequencies
higher highs and lower lows the only
downside I've discovered of this is that
I hear more of my vocal imperfections I
can more clearly hear my breathing and
clicks in my mouth but if I want to get
rid of these I can just use an equalizer
and eliminate those frequencies all
right I'm inside a really noisy
fast-food restaurant my friend Matt here
hello this is the this is the adventure
being Griffin Hammonds friend he shows
up with camera equipment to lunch and I
have no idea what's going on
one thing I want to test out is if
either one of these mics can isolate my
voice block out the background noise
better than the other so I'm going to
turn on this heater it's on high right
now let's hear it
it's on high right now let's hear it
let's talking to both microphones and
see if either of them is doing a better
job than the other of picking up just my
voice and not that heater next to me all
right so right now both my microphones
are sitting here on the desk and I'm
going to move little ways away here both
mics this is what they sound like
at a distance yep I got a mixed
lightening board for you full of
exciting things yep I got a mixed
exciting things the only real difference
between these microphones is dynamic
range the road just sounds fuller more
present but it's not a magic microphone
it doesn't make noise disappear it still
needs to be close to the subject to
sound good and for as different as these
microphones sound I was never unhappy
with the as Dan it's only now that I'm
doing side-by-side tests that I notice
anything is lacking so in the future for
shots like this I'm gonna start using
the rode ntg3 but for me the biggest
drawback of this microphone is that it
doesn't have its own power it needs
phantom power from my audio recorder but
sometimes I like to shoot super
lightweight with an XLR to 8th inch
adapter plugged into my camera the road
can't do that only the as done with it's
triple a battery can work directly with
the camera let me know in the comments
what microphone you use and if you're
happy with it and if you're curious
about any of the filmmaking gear that I
use from cameras to microphones to
adapter cables I've created a handy list
right here for your reference and one
more thing if you are in Los Angeles I
would love to see you next week when
I'll be at the Hollywood premiere of my
film
sriracha my documentary it's playing
Tuesday June 3rd at 2:45 p.m. at the
Chinese theaters like right there on
Hollywood Boulevard so I hope to see you
there
thanks for watching everyone